# Determine how to convert multiple media files for a single job and return a single media file

## Status

Ongoing

## Context

The current conversion tool is able to only convert videos that have one audio channel and one video channel. Real world operations have conversion requests that are more complicated than that.

The conversion tool should be able to convert multiple audio files and multiple video files into a single media file. However, that is not as easy as it sounds. For one, we can have multiple audio files become a single audio file with multiple audio channels. For another, we can have multiple video files become a single video file through concatenation. However that may be, it should be possible for this converter tool to be able to handle concatenations and creating multiple audio channels.

## Decision

The current approach to the problem is to utilize these two query string parameters and their value formats below:

```
audio_[n] = ([m]:[c])\++
```

For `audio_[n]`, these options are valid:
- `audio_0=0:0`
- `audio_1=0:0+1:0`
- `audio_0=0:0+1:0+2:0&audio_1=0:1+1:1+2:1`

Below are multiple cases in which to configure the outputs audio channels using flags:

### Case 0: Default Behavior

There exists a series of default behaviors in which the set of audio channel parameters are not required.

#### Case 0.1: Video with single audio channel

Given:
- one video file with one audio channel
- no audio files

The output will be a single video file with a single audio channel.

The output is similar to adding `audio_0=0:0` to the query parameters.

#### Case 0.2: Video with no audio channels

Given:
- one video file with no audio channels
- no audio files

The output will be a single video file with no audio channels.

There is no query parameter counterpart for this due to the resulting video not having any audio chanenls.

#### Case 0.3: Video with multiple audio channels

Given:
- one video file with multiple audio channels
- no audio files

The output will be a single video file with the same count and order of audio channels.

The output is similar to adding `audio_0=0:0&audio_1=0:1&...` to the query parameters.

#### Case 0.4: Multiple videos with the same number of channels

Given:
- multiple video files with the same number of channels
- no audio files

The output will be a single video file whose video and each of the audio channels are concatenated together, respectively.

#### Case 0.5: One video with no audio channels and one audio file

Given:
- one video file with no audio channels
- one audio file

The output will be a single video file whose audio channel is from the audio file uploaded.

The output is similar to adding `audio_0=1:0(+1:1+1:2+...)` to the query parameters.

#### Case 0.6: All other cases

For all other cases, an error will be returned since it is difficult to infer what the output will be.

### Case 1: Adding another audio channel to a video

Given, in order:
- one video file with $n$ channels
- a single audio file

Using the query string `audio_[n+1]=1:0` will produce one video file with $n+1$ audio channels. Do note that you still have to resolve the value of `[n+1]`.

### Case 2: Adding many more audio channels to a video

Given, in order:
- one video file with no audio channels
- several audio files

Using the query string `audio_[n+1]=1:0&audio[n+2]=2:0&...` will produce one video file with $n+m$ audio channels. Do note that you still have to resolve the values for `[n+1]`, `[n+2]`, etc.

### Case 3: Concatenating multiple videos and many more channels

Given:
- multiple video files
- multiple audio channels

Carefully constructing the query parameters for this will produce one concatenated video file with carefully constructed audio channels.

For example, if we would like the first audio channel to be a concatenation of the first channels of the videos at file indices 0 to 3, we would use `audio_0=0:0+1:0+2:0+3:0`.

If we would like the second audio channel to be a concatenation of the second channel of the first video and the first channels of files at indices 6 to 9, we would use `audio_1=0:1+6:0+7:0+8:0+9:0`.

## Caveats

This approach may seem to be convoluted to the end user, especially if they are also performing any of the cases 1 to 3. For example, it leaves the responsibility of determining how many audio channels there actually are in a media file to the user (hint: use `ffprobe`). Failing to determine that can lead to the possibility of "dropping" an audio channel that needs to be there.

However, those mentioned above are not your usual end user. The usage for a typical end user are defined in the default cases. It just so happens that the needs of the end user matches the convenience to develop for the developer.

## Conclusion

Overall, this approach would create great flexibility in providing possible output configurations for the user through the use of query string parameters.
